# Paradata
---
March 18, 2018

I began my work for Module 3 very unsure of what direction I wanted to go. I didn't really have any video game experience or knowledge before this Module, and thus was nervous about my abilities to create a digital game in any form. I started by reviewing the different options listed in the [FAQ](https://github.com/shawngraham/hist3812w18/wiki/FAQ) and gravitated towards the text based games of interactive fiction and visual novels.

I decided to build a visual novel, as the visual element appealed to me and I would be able to incorporate my sonification from Module 2. I looked at Professor Graham's visual novel [Nile Diary](https://github.com/shawngraham/renpy-projects/tree/master/Nile_Diary-1.0-dists)to understand the way it worked and followed the [Quickstart](https://www.renpy.org/doc/html/quickstart.html) for the [Ren'Py Visual Novel Engine](https://www.renpy.org/). 

After downloading the program, I began to create my new project. I decided to combine it with my creation from Module 2 as I felt that the sonification could add to the visual and text elements of the novel. As the sonification was of data of a 3d model of a Winston Churchill mug from 1940, I decided to focus my visual novel on historical information about Churchill coming into office during World War 2. 

I began to built the text of the novel, but encountered some difficulty in adding images. Even though I followed the Quickstart examples, the images weren't displaying at all in the novel. This was really discouraging, as the images are an integral part of the work. They are literally the 'visual' in the visual novel. After trying to figure the issue out for a while, I decided to focus on finishing the text and adding the sound in order to return to the images later. 

I found several websites to use for sources of historical information for the novel. I know this isn't the most secure source, but I just needed the basic information regarding Churchill and England in 1940. I also did not have a lot of time to do an indepth search. 

After I finished writing the text, I focused on adding my sonification of the Churchill Toby Jug to the novel. I once again followed the directions in the Quickstart. I used the 'music play' statement in the text editor to add the sound file. When I tested the novel to see if the sonification worked, it didn't. I returned to the editor and realized I had placed the statement in the wrong section of the text, before the 'label start' instead of after it. I moved it, which made sure the sound would be included in the novel. When I listened to the sonification in the novel I found that it complemented the novel. It works very well with the text, as it is fast paced and relays a sense of the urgency people would have felt during the war. The pauses between the loops of the sonification also serve to emphasis the eraticness of the song as well as provide a moment of calm for the player. The sonificaion of a historical object from 1940 helps to augment the interaction the player has with the historical information provided in the text and the images, allowing for a more immersive digital world in which to experience history. 

I went back to figure out how to fix the issue with inputting images into the visual novel. I realized that I had inputted the image names with "bg" before them, like in the Quickstart examples. I removed the "bg" and tried the game again. This time the images all appeared in the visual novel, but each one had different spacing. I was unable to fix this spacing issue, but think that there must be a way to edit the dimensions of the images so that they appear similarly in the finished visual novel. I added my visual novel to my [Github](https://github.com/rachel-johnson/Module-3-digital-to-digital-/tree/master/Game%20Files).

I think that overall the experience of create a digital text and image based game was very interesting. Although I had no previous video game knowledge, I was able to successfully follow the tutorials and built my own visual novel. There are a couple aspects that I would fix, but I find that I am happy with what I accomplished in this Module. I really like the idea of being able to combine several different kinds of digital things in order to interact with history in new ways. I think that the combination of sonfication, text, and images allows for an augmented interaction with history which would be impossible without technology and the digital world. 